First version for SC elections 2021 page (#495)
USRSE/usrse.github.io: pages/community/election.md

subtitle:
bigimg:
permalink: /election/
---

The 2021 US-RSE Steering Committee elections are happening this December.

## Timeline

The timeline for this year's elections will be posted soon.

## Positions and Eligibility
Five Steering Committee seats are open in this election, each for a 2-year term (January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2023). The following steering committee members have terms that end this year: Jeff Carver, Ian Cosden, Charles Ferenbaugh, Sandra Gesing, and Christina Maimone. All US-RSE members in good standing as of the day nominations open are eligible for nomination.  

A membership verification email will be sent to all members in October. The message will be sent directly from leadership@us-rse.org, not through the Google group used for most email communications.   Individuals who do not receive the membership verification email may join the organization by filling out the membership form at [https://us-rse.org/join/](https://us-rse.org/join/).  For questions or help with membership matters, please contact Election Chairs Julia Damerow and Lance Parsons on Slack or [via email](mailto:jdamerow@asu.edu,lparsons@princeton.edu).

> The US-RSE Steering Committee sets its own meeting frequency and timing.  Currently, the Steering Committee is meeting every two weeks.  The Steering Committee meeting frequency and schedule for 2022 will be determined once new members are elected.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The US-RSE Steering Committee sets its own meeting frequency and timing.  Currently, the Steering Committee meets every two weeks.  The Steering Committee meeting frequency and schedule for 2022 will be determined once new members are elected.  
```

Reviewer: I would actually move this down as a subbullet under 
* Attend and participate in Steering Committee meetings

The responsibilities of Steering Committee members are detailed in the [US-RSE Membership and Governance](https://github.com/USRSE/documents/blob/master/governance.md) document. They include:

* Setting the overall policy and direction of the US-RSE Association
* Being responsible for day-to-day activities, operations, and development of the US-RSE Association

Additionally, Steering Committee members are expected to:

* Attend and participate in Steering Committee meetings
* Follow and participate in Steering Committee discussions on Slack
* Contribute to US-RSE operations through activities such as
  * Updating the website
  * Writing newsletters and communications
  * Organizing and leading community calls and events
  * Engaging with community members on Slack
* Help further the community by
  * Participating on international RSE committees
  * Organizing BOFs, workshops, meetups, and other events at relevant conferences
  * Leading US-RSE working groups
  * Writing blog posts
  * Bringing new ideas to the organization

## Nominations and Candidate Information

> Individuals may nominate themself or another member.  In cases when a nomination is not a self-nomination, the Election Chair will contact the nominated individual to confirm their interest in participating.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Individuals may nominate themselves or another member.  In cases when a nomination is not a self-nomination, the Election Chairs will contact the nominated individual to confirm their interest in participating.
```

> On the nomination form, the following information is required:

Reviewer 2: Does the form exist? I think it should be linked and available when this goes live. That is, nominations are open once this goes live along with a clear end date for nominations.

**If Nominating Someone Else:**

* Your name and email
* Nominee’s name and email
* Short statement about why you think the nominated individual will make a good Steering Committee member

Nominations of others will only be shared with the Election Chairs and the nominated individual.  The information will not be made public.

**Self-nomination or Accepted Nomination:**

* Your name and a publicly-shareable email
* A link to a resume, CV, LinkedIn profile, or professional website
* Why do you want to be on the US-RSE Steering Committee? (<=1000 characters)
* How do you contribute to the US-RSE Association or RSE community more broadly? (<= 1500 characters)

> All candidate information will be shared on the US-RSE website.  Additionally, candidates will have the opportunity to share a short statement (live or recorded) during the US-RSE General meeting in December.  

Reviewer: I think these should all be recorded - having both formats is a bit awkward and perhaps also unfair.

Reviewer 2: I agree. A recording with a time limit seems the most fair and controlled. But having candidates available live for questions/discussion should be encouraged

Reviewer 3: I also agree that we should have everyone in the same format. So a recording followed by live Q&A is a good idea.
